
<ArticleTitle>Handheld digital equipment for weight composite distress paradigms: new considerations and for rapid documentation and intervention of rodent populations.</ArticleTitle>
<AbstractText>Animal care in the third millennium will require a melding of scientific and humane interests to achieve optimal care of genetically engineered mice and to expedite scientific and medical advances by using these mammals. Undoubtedly, rodent patients present certain difficulties for those who wish to assess their daily well-being and to contribute to efficient and successful scientific discovery. High-density housing, large experimental groups, and low-lux room lighting makes the application of large-animal care standards to rodents seem daunting to researchers and veterinary care programs. In addition, great variability in training and experience among those responsible for the direct application of humane care to rodents exists. Most of the direct animal care in small animal facilities occurs in decentralized locales by personnel who have completed obligatory but relatively minimal animal care training. Examples of personnel in this category include postdoctoral fellows, junior-level scientists, summer students, and assistant laboratory animal technologists. Some programs even use the husbandry staff to perform health checks of high-risk populations on a daily basis. For this reason, the extrapolation of performance-based intervention in rodent care is difficult to apply practically. Early efforts to enhance humane outcome in rodents have been published by scientists and veterinarians and are largely directed at singular endpoints, such as weight loss and declining temperatures, in specific models. Scientists often are reluctant to accept such standards because of concern about premature intervention or variability between scorers and to reservations regarding a lack of procedural likeness with their proposed study. This paper highlights a digital method for melding current advanced animal scoring standards using palm pilot user-friendly methods that account for composite weight scoring, behavioral or physiologic attributes, and interventions. Information is rapidly downloaded and results in quick storage of large rodent population monitoring. This minimizes interpretative variability between caregivers and greater standardization of procedures. These considerations facilitate the rapid diagnosis of outliers and make possible intervention that streamlines the delivery of humane care to large experimental populations.</AbstractText>
