
<ArticleTitle>Animation of in vitro biomechanical tests.</ArticleTitle>
<AbstractText>Interdisciplinary communication of three-dimensional kinematic data arising from in vitro biomechanical tests is challenging. Complex kinematic representations such as the helical axes of motion (HAM) add to the challenge. The difficulty increases further when other quantities (i.e. load or tissue strain data) are combined with the kinematic data. The objectives of this study were to develop a method to graphically replay and animate in vitro biomechanical tests including HAM data. This will allow intuitive interpretation of kinematic and other data independent of the viewer's area of expertise. The value of this method was verified with a biomechanical test investigating load-sharing of the cervical spine. Three 3.0 mm aluminium spheres were glued to each of the two vertebrae from a C2-3 segment of a human cervical spine. Before the biomechanical tests, CT scans were made of the specimen (slice thickness=1.0 mm and slice spacing=1.5 mm). The specimens were subjected to right axial torsion moments (2.0 Nm). Strain rosettes mounted to the anterior surface of the C3 vertebral body and bilaterally beneath the facet joints on C3 were used to estimate the force flow through the specimen. The locations of the aluminium spheres were digitised using a space pointer and the motion analysis system. Kinematics were measured using an optoelectronic motion analysis system. HAMs were calculated to describe the specimen kinematics. The digitised aluminium sphere locations were used to match the CT and biomechanical test data (RMS errors between the CT and experimental points were less than 1.0 mm). The biomechanical tests were "replayed" by animating reconstructed CT models in accordance with the recorded experimental kinematics, using custom software. The animated test replays allowed intuitive analysis of the kinematic data in relation to the strain data. This technique improves the ability of experts from disparate backgrounds to interpret and discuss this type of biomechanical data.</AbstractText>
